Create a dedicated "C# Signals" page (#6643)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/scripting/c_sharp/c_sharp_signals.rst

.. _doc_c_sharp_signals:

C# Signals
==========

For a detailed explanation of signals in general, see the :ref:`doc_signals` section in the step
by step tutorial.

> If it is still possible to use signals through the ``Connect``/``Disconnect`` API, C# gives us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is still possible to use signals through the ``Connect``/``Disconnect`` API, C# gives us
```

> a more idiomatic way into the observer pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a more idiomatic way in form of the observer pattern.
```

Author: I'm not sure if that says the same thing? But I'm also pretty sure my sentence is not correct. The intended meaning here is "a more idiomatic way to write observer patterns".

Reviewer: @paulloz "...a more idiomatic way to implement the observer pattern" then, maybe? May also useful to throw a link explaining that pattern in there.

Author: Sure, should I link to [this page](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/getting_started/introduction/key_concepts_overview.html#signals), or directly to what the [GPP page](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/observer.html) linked in that note?

Reviewer: @paulloz Linking to that section is fine, that piece is short enough and also means we only need to maintain that external link in one place.

> Signals as C# events

Reviewer 2: Do we want to add a note that `Invoke` can't be used to raise events? Or is that sufficiently clear with the _Signal emission_ section below?

Author: I almost wrote something about it, so if you thought about it too, it's probably necessary.

--------------------

To provide more type-safety, Godot signals are also all available through events. You can handle
these events, as any other event, with the ``+=`` and ``-=`` operators.

.. code-block:: csharp

    Timer myTimer = GetNode<Timer>("Timer");
    myTimer.Timeout += () => GD.Print("Timeout!");

In addition, you can always access signal names associated with a node type through its nested
``SignalName`` class. This is useful when, for example, you want to await on a signal (see :ref:`doc_c_sharp_differences_yield`).

.. code-block:: csharp

    await ToSignal(GetTree(), SceneTree.SignalName.ProcessFrame);

.. note::

    Godot will take care of disconnecting all the signals you connected through events when your
    nodes are freed. Meaning that: as you don't need to call ``Disconnect`` on all signals you used
    ``Connect`` on, you don't need to ``-=`` all the signals you used ``+=`` on.

Custom signals as C# events
---------------------------

To declare a custom event in your C# script, use the ``[Signal]`` attribute on a delegate type.
Note that the name of this delegate needs to end with ``EventHandler``.

.. code-block:: csharp

    [Signal]

>     public delegate void SayHelloEventHandler();

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's noted anywhere but signal names should generally use past tense. Consider `SaidHelloEventHandler` or `GreetedEventHandler`. Or we could just use `MySignalEventHandler` like in the example that was in the C# features page.

.NET guidelines recommend using past tense for events raised _after_ the fact (e.g.: `Closed`) and present tense for events raised _before_ the fact (e.g.: `Closing`).

    [Signal]
    public delegate void SayHelloWithNameEventHandler(string myString);

> Once this is done, Godot will create the appropriate events automatically behind the scenes. You

Reviewer 2: Users probably don't care but should we mention source generators here at all?

Author: We could probably add a small *how it's done* section at the very bottom of the page if people are interested.

Reviewer 2: :thinking: It's probably not necessary, if anything maybe we could consider it in a new page that talks about engine internals. This page should probably remain as a high level introduction to signals rather than explaining every single thing; otherwise, users may get overwhelmed with information.

can then use said events as you'd do for any other Godot signal. Note that events are named using
your delegate's name minus the final ``EventHandler`` part.

.. code-block:: csharp

    public override void _Ready()
    {
        SayHello += () => GD.Print("Hello!");
        SayHelloWithName += SayHelloTo;
    }

    private void SayHelloTo(string name)
    {
        GD.Print($"Hello {name}!");
    }

.. warning::

    If you want to connect to these signals in the editor, you will need to (re)build the project
    to see them appear.

    You can click the **Build** button in the upper-right corner of the editor to do so.

Signal emission
---------------

To emit signals, use the ``EmitSignal`` method. Note that, as for signals defined by the engine,
your custom signal names are listed under the nested ``SignalName`` class.

.. code-block:: csharp

    public void MyMethodEmittingSignals()
    {
        EmitSignal(SignalName.SayHello);
        EmitSignal(SignalName.SayHelloWithName, "World");
    }

Signals support arguments of:

> * All the `built-in types <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/built-in-types-table>`_,

Author: Arf, one of the few things I brought from the old page without checking.

* Classes derived from :ref:`Godot.Object <class_Object>`

> * Collections of those types

Author: Don't we have conversions from a bunch of .Net collections to Godot ones?

> * Collections of those types

Reviewer 2: The `Godot.Collections` types have constructors that would allow you to convert a .NET collection to a Godot one, yes. However, this conversion won't happen automatically so if you define a signal with a `List<int>` parameter that won't work (should result in an error diagnostic from our source generator).

> * Collections of those types

Author: Ah yes, conversion will let you *pass in* the list when making the call, but not define the delegate like that. I'm dumb.

to inherit from ``Godot.Object`` or one of its subclasses.

.. code-block:: csharp

    public partial class DataObject : Godot.Object
    {
        public string MyFirstString { get; set; }
        public string MySecondString { get; set; }
    }

Bound values
------------

Sometimes you'll want to bind values to a signal when the connection is established, rather than
(or in addition to) when the signal is emitted. To do so, you can use an anonymous function like in
the following example.

Here, the :ref:`Button.Pressed <class_BaseButton_signal_pressed>` signal do not take any argument. But we
want to use the same ``ModifyValue`` for both the "plus" and "minus" buttons. So we bind the
modifier value at the time we're connecting the signals.

.. code-block:: csharp

    public int Value { get; private set; } = 1;

    public override void _Ready()
    {
        Button plusButton = GetNode<Button>("PlusButton");
        plusButton.Pressed += () => ModifyValue(1);

        Button minusButton = GetNode<Button>("MinusButton");
        minusButton.Pressed += () => ModifyValue(-1);
    }

    private void ModifyValue(int modifier)
    {
        Value += modifier;
    }

> Signal creation at runtime

Reviewer 2: It's probably not necessary but we may want to add a note that adding signals this way won't allow you to use them as events or use `SignalName`.

Signal emission
---------------

To emit signals, use the ``EmitSignal`` method. Note that, as for signals defined by the engine,
your custom signal names are listed under the nested ``SignalName`` class.

.. code-block:: csharp

    public void MyMethodEmittingSignals()
    {
        EmitSignal(SignalName.MySignal);
        EmitSignal(SignalName.MySignalWithArgument, "World");
    }

Signals support arguments of:

* All the `built-in value types <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/built-in-types-table>`_,
  except ``decimal``, ``nint`` and ``nuint``
* ``string``
* Classes derived from :ref:`Godot.Object <class_Object>`
* Collections types defined in the ``Godot.Collections`` namespace

Consequently, any ``Node`` or ``Reference`` will be compatible automatically, but custom data objects will need
to inherit from ``Godot.Object`` or one of its subclasses.

.. code-block:: csharp

    public partial class DataObject : Godot.Object
    {
        public string MyFirstString { get; set; }
        public string MySecondString { get; set; }
    }

.. warning::

>     You should not use ``Invoke`` on events tied to Godot signals, as this would not execute the

Reviewer 2: Just to be clear, you can't use `Invoke` even if you wanted to, because of the way we generate the events.
